---
id: 202103120055
created: 2021-03-12
last-modified: 2021-08-29
title: "This website is an experiment"
---
# [This website is an experiment]([[202108290048]]).

Although the website can be accessed from any device, the design of the experience is primarily intended for the desktop, optimized for my personal use. It plays with explicit bidirectional links between internal pages and a generous preview, which added to [the keyboard navigation using the browser shortcuts]([[202108291255]]), allows me a very fast interaction.

Internally, I am interested in working with the web content directly in Markdown, the format I use to take notes, not only for practical reasons such as centralizing the content in one place or standardizing the formats to work with, but as an exercise to consolidate my note-taking system as well as to test it as a system to communicate and share ideas with others effectively.

The templates for digital knowledge gardens are very close to my needs. The intention of any template is that you can focus on the content rather than how to display it, but in my case, I also want to have the possibility to explore different ways of displaying the same set of notes.

This version of the website is built from [Max's template](https://github.com/maximevaillancourt/digital-garden-jekyll-template), but the intention is to migrate from Ruby to Js at some point, to facilitate the production of future visualizations. The code is public, but it's a mess. [Write me]([[202103120016]]) if you want to comment anything.

The design is influenced by the template itself, and highly inspired by [Ted Nelson's ideas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMKy52Intac) and [Andy Matuschak's notes](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/About_these_notes), among many other sources I cannot recall, and therefore, accredit. 