---
created: 2021-05-22
last-modified: 2021-08-29
id: 202105220925d
title: "I want to create alternatives to the current digital paradigm."
---
# I want to participate in the conception and creation of alternatives to the current digital paradigm.

## — Why it is important to me

Because we are starting to understand what it really means and implies [to be a digital society]([[202105211833d]]). Because we are living [a key moment in history]([[202103171529d]]) where we have the opportunity and responsibility to rethink [how we conceive reality and our place in it]([[202105211626d]]).

Because there is a lot to improve and because it is frustrating to see how we are repeating toxic patterns of behavior, automatically, affecting the individual and the collective, without even stopping a second to think about them. 

## — How I am approaching it

I know that this is a long term goal, I understood that I don't need to get anxious at transforming this need into something tangible soon, I am using it as my north star, guiding my path.

Right now, my formula to tackle these topics consist of a balance between research and artistic practice.

## — What can you do to help me or to participate in the process

I am learning, so I will appreciate any thought, opinion or reference on anything you feel is related with the content of this site. If you see something that doesn't make sense or you don't understand, inconsistencies, mistakes, or you are just curious to know more, write to me. 

In short, any excuse is valid to start a conversation, please don't hesitate of doing it. My efforts on making my process public are exactly for achieving that kind of exchange.